A special
investigation
here at CNN
looking at the deadly weapons arsenal
that Hamas had, that
they used to unleash terror
and to slaughter
all those innocent people.
What weapons did they use
and where did they get them?
Oren Liebermann is OUTFRONT.
An entire arsenal on display.
Weapons fashioned in Hamas's
homegrown facilities, but no less deadly.
CNN analyzed
dozens of photos
and videos of Hamas militants
during the surprise assault
to identify
the weapons used to kill
at least 1200 people in Israel.
The most important character
risk of the military equipment
they have, it's that it's
easily interchangeable.
It's reliable, dependable,
and you can get parts for it.
Many, like the Soviet built
50 caliber machine gun,
appear to be Russian
or Chinese firearms
relics from previous wars
that made their way
into the hands of Hamas,
ubiquitous among many of the photos
and videos.
The aftermath Kalashnikov, the AK 47,
the preferred weapon for militant groups
capable of spewing automatic fire
with horrific results.
The assault
rifles, along
with the grenades
carried by Hamas militants,
made them deadly when they reached
Israeli towns and villages near Gaza.
All they're trying to do
is provide the shock effects,
provide dependability.
Their weapons have to work.
So they're very rudimentary.
But based on their training
best in how they operate them,
they are successful with them.
Hamas, his main weapon, has long
been their supply of rockets
from short range to long range.
The terror attack on Saturday
morning began
with a barrage of rocket fire,
a smokescreen for the imminent attack.
Thousands of rockets
overwhelmed Israel's Iron Dome air
defense system,
a tactic Hamas
has refined over the years.
That's the capability
for the enemy, for Hamas,
just to fire them up against
potentially commercial aircraft.
And that,
I think, is
one of the major issues
of these terrorist groups.
And if they have those kinds of weapons
in their hands.
Hamas used paragliders
to cross the Gaza border.
The recreational vehicles
are barely maneuverable
and easy to target in the air.
But in the chaos of the moment,
the plan worked.
Some of the weapons
and equipment
were decidedly more low tech.
Israel built a complex
underground barrier to stop tunnels
from crossing the Gaza border.
So Hamas used a bulldozer
to tear down the aboveground fence.
They are just looking to create chaos
with the kind of equipment they have.
And the equipment has got to be reliable.
Worth noting that these are
only the videos and the weapons
we saw in the videos and the
and the photos from from the attack.
We've seen them use
other weapons in the past
like anti-tank
anti-armor rockets or missiles.
And, Erin, that's
what makes a ground incursion by Israel
such a difficult proposition.
All right, Oren, thank you very much.
With all of that
reporting on the weapons,
I want to go now
to Lieutenant Colonel
Jonathan Conricus,
the international spokesperson
for the Israeli Defense Forces.
And,
Colonel, obviously,
welcome back to the program.
You heard Oren's report.
Do you feel right now that
that the IDF knows
what sort of an arsenal Hamas
has right now,
whether it be rockets
and other sorts of weaponry?
Do you know the extent
of the arsenal right now?
I don't.
Hi, Aaron.
Thank you for having me again.
I think that the story you just aired
is very comprehensive, Interesting.
And, well done one.
And I think that
the short answer to your question is, no,
we don't.
And I
think that we have
to be extremely cautious and very humble
in our approach
for the next stage of operations,
because clearly our enemy has shown
that they have had the ability
to acquire and train and use weapons
that they haven't done before,
and they field to them,
unfortunately, successfully
on the battlefield.
So we have to be very,
very humble and strong focused
and I would say aggressive
in our approach against them.
So you talk about being aggressive
in the next stages,
even as you say, you need to be humble.
You know, Israel
obviously issued that evacuation
order for northern Gaza.
The United Nations said
it was a 24 hour deadline.
Where are we in this?
Are you able to give
any sort of a sense of
when Israel may move?
Yeah, it's about 2:30 a.m.
local time.
So it's dark and it's,
of course,
very difficult to
see exactly
what's happening in the Gaza Strip.
But we've been following
throughout the day
and we've been monitoring the movement,
the mass movement
of Palestinian civilians, who,
I'm happy to say many, many.
I don't know
exactly how many, but many,
many have listened to the warnings
and have indeed moved
evacuated themselves to the south.
And that is very good for them
and their families.
I'm not going to put a time line on
our time schedule, sorry,
on our activities.
I can only say that
we are trying to do the right thing here.
We're trying to get
the civilians out of the way
because we are going to intensify
the operations in and around Gaza City
whenever we will feel
that the situation is
tenable for military operations.
I assume that that is when
the operations will continue.
And you also you
did have some operations today.
Obviously, those were more special forces
back in there.
Can you tell us anything about
whether they were successful
or what was accomplished?
Yeah, they were successful
in the sense that they were able
to find new intelligence
and perhaps shed a little bit more light
on the very complex task
we have of understanding
who was taken hostage and who wasn't.
Who is dead and who might be missing.
And then trying to piece together
other sources of intelligence
and building a more cohesive picture
of where they are and who they are.
And then, of course, supporting a plan on
how to get them out.
So, yes, it was successful.
We found intelligence that
the support staff
and of course, that is a very high
I would say number one priority for us is
to find those people,
get them back home to Israel.
And Hamas claims that
13 of them, 13 Israeli hostages in Gaza,
they say were killed,
they say were actually killed
by IDF air strikes in the past 24 hours.
I know that
one of your colleagues had said
that Israeli intelligence
was looking into it.
Is there any truth to
what Hamas is claiming?
Well,
the Hamas is a lying,
cowardly terrorist organization
that I don't think
that any of their statements are true.
It is all propaganda.
And they also said,
I think it was on the second
or third day of the war,
you'll forgive me for not keeping
count of the days. Totally.
But on the second on the third day,
they also said that they would start
they would start executing hostages
and filming it.
If Israel doesn't stop
targeting their facilities
and so who it's it's
impossible to trust what they're saying
and will have to believe
believe it
only when we see it
and when we have our intelligence
that will prove it.
But at the end of the day,
Hamas is responsible
and Hamas will pay a price.
Colonel, thank you very much.
I appreciate your time again.
Thank you. Thank you.